#Beginning of video 1
Relational database is a set of relations. There are no duplicate relations in the database.Each column in a table has a domain (D). The cardinality of the domain is the set of values it represents.
Student(Table) Each row is a student and each column is an attribute.Terms realation and table are interchangable. The language to retrieve information in the database are of two types in relational. Procedural/operational and declarative.
Procedural: instructs the system "how" to perform a set of actions to retrieve info. Declarative: tells "what" they want and the DBS figures out sequence of operations to retrieve data on it's own.

#Relational Algebra Query Language.

#Beginning of video projection
Takes only one table as input and filters based on the given requirement "r"

#Beginning of video intersection
Works like the logic and operator.

#Beginning of video theta join
Similar to cartesian product. Addition of the selection predicate. Creates all possible tuples and then applies a condition on the tuples for filtering. The name of prof in table 1 and in the tbale 2 with a different attribute (column) title should match. Only then will valid tuples be created.

#Quiz
Which statement about the selection operator is correct?
Ans: It displays certain tuples based on given criteria. 

What is the ϴ-Join operation used for?
Ans: To join two relations in a database. 

Consider a relation, STUDENT, with the following attributes: Name, ID number, Major, Graduation Year, and GPA. Consider a query using this relation: “List the names and ID numbers of students majoring in Computer Science.” Which operator is absolutely necessary for this query?
Ans: Projection

#SQL is a declarative language
There are three important keywords in the SQL language. select, from and where. Note: key words order by can also be found in the image shown.

#Beginning of video 1
From is where we pass the relation list. In select we pass the target list. In where there are qualifications or predicates. Distinct is optional, we specify when we want to remove the duplicate rows in the output query language.

Compute cross product of all relations in the relation list. Discard tuples that do not satisy the qualification. We also filter out attributes not in the target list. If distinct exists, also remove duplicates.
It is the job of the DBS to figure out how to perform the above goals.

##Syntax:
Select is the attribute that you want to be returned.
From is where you specify the tables from where the data is supposed to be read.
Where is the statement where you declare the condition.

You want to find the names of the sailors who rented atleast one boat.
Select wpuld be "S.sname"
From would be Sailors.S and Reserves.R
Where would be S.sid = R.sid

Find sid of sailors who reserved a red of blue color boat.
SELECT S.sid
FROM Sailors.S, Boats.B, Reserves.R
WHERE S.sid = R.sid and R.bid = B.bid
AND (B.color = 'red' OR B.color = 'blue')

#Beginning of video 2
For finding red "OR" blue boats, use the union operator,  for red "and" green boats use the intersection operator.

